git init -- it is empty repostory
git Status 
git add . or * or give the file name
git commit -m - The files are moving to local repo(-m message)
git config --global user.name "username" - to configure the user name for github
git config --global user.email "email" - to configure the email name for github
git remote add wm url (wm- alias name, url- repository url) - to add the github repository url to gitbash
git remote -v (check the connection for github)
git push wm master
gi log - check how may times to commit 
git log -1 -if you want see last comment 
git show "commit id" or else "first 6 to 7 charcter commit id"
git log "filename" - commit id shown
git reset - this command is used to staging files moves to working area
git reset "filename" - if you want move only one file from satging area to wokking area
git commit -m "first commit" file1 file - if you want to move single file 
git revert "commnetID" - whatever files are created  and updated files those are deleted in local repository
git clean -n - to check remove the files
git clean -f - to remove the files in working area

gitignore - .files and folder keep it in one place (those are related to eclips,vscode ect)
git remote remove wm (map url remove. that means repository url, wm - alias name)
git branch - it shows the all branches
git branch -r - the project is avaible in which branch
git branch "branch name" - it will create the new branch.
git checkout "branch name" - it switch to other branch.(exp: you are in master branch if you need to change the other branch)
git diff "branch name" "banch name1" - check the two branches file text or any content
git diff "branch name" - To check the current branch and other branch content in a file
git merge - Two Branches content in a file to merge
git checkout -b "Branch Name" - it will create the new branch name and switch to the new branch name
git push (alias) --all (all branches will move to the remote repository)
git branch -r (it will show the all remote repositorys)
git branch -a (it will show the remote and local repositorys)
git push wm : "branch name" - To delete the remote repository branch
svn checkout == get pull/git fetch --will get the code form the remote repository
git tag - we are not able to update the tag. once development is done then tag will be used.every relase we are going to use tag.

git branch:                                 git tag
------------                               ----------
mutable                                     immutable
development                                 after production deployment
git branch                                  git tag
git branch -d "branch name"                 git tag -d "tag name"
git push an(alias name) --all               git push an(alias name) --tags
git push an(alias name) "branch name"       git push an(alias name) tag "tag name"

git stash - it will take the backup(ex: if incase in our production we have a issue we need to fix that. if you will check the current branch if any changes it also effect other branch as well.So in that case you have take the backup.
git stash list - it shows the all backup list(output: stash{0}, stash{1} like that)
git stash applay stash{0} - The backup will aplicable for only one . 
git stash applay - the backup will aplicable for latest version only
git stash drop - the latest version backup file will be deleted. 
git stash drop stash{0} - as you mention that backup file only will be deleted
git stash pop - instaed of (git stash  apply or git stash drop ) to use.
git cherry-pick - if particular file is updated in the one branch same you want to update other branch as well you can use cherry-pick command.
git cherry-pick "comment id" 
git clone -  command is used to create a local copy of an existing Git repository, which can be located on a remote server (like GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket) or on the local filesystem. (it will take the remote repository url)
git pull (aliasname) (branch name)/pit fetch (aliasname) (branch name) - we have to take the code from the remote repostory after that we can use git merge (alias name and branch name)
git pull = git fetch + git merge
ssh-keygen - to generate the public key(id_rsa.pub) and private key (id_rsa). (it is a secure shell.)
ssh -T git@github.com - to check the ssh connection between git and github
git remote add "allias name" "you have to provide sshurl"
ex: git remote add sshurl "git@github.com:PrasadArigela/Wallmart.git"
PAT - personal access token (exp :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 )
git rebase "branch name" - if will take "git merge commnad" or "git rebase command" integated from one branch code to other branch code. whatever comment id or objects individaully it is going to take and it is going to add the master branch....

